feat: Migrate spanner spring data r2dbc (#1971)
GoogleCloudPlatform/spring-cloud-gcp: docs/src/main/asciidoc/spanner-spring-data-r2dbc.adoc

== Cloud Spanner Spring Data R2DBC

The Spring Data R2DBC Dialect for Cloud Spanner enables the usage of https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-data-r2dbc[Spring Data R2DBC] with Cloud Spanner.

The goal of the Spring Data project is to create easy and consistent ways of using data access technologies from Spring Framework applications.

=== Setup

Maven coordinates, using <<getting-started.adoc#bill-of-materials, Spring Framework on Google Cloud BOM>>:

[source,xml]
----
    <dependency>
        <groupId>com.google.cloud</groupId>
        <artifactId>spring-cloud-spanner-spring-data-r2dbc</artifactId>
    </dependency>
----

Gradle coordinates:

[source,subs="normal"]
----
dependencies {
    implementation("com.google.cloud:spring-cloud-spanner-spring-data-r2dbc")
}
----
=== Overview

Spring Data R2DBC allows you to use the convenient features of Spring Data in a reactive application.
These features include:

* Spring configuration support using Java based `@Configuration` classes.
* Annotation based mapping metadata.
* Automatic implementation of Repository interfaces.
* Support for Reactive Transactions.
* Schema and data initialization utilities.

> See the https://docs.spring.io/spring-data/r2dbc/docs/1.0.x/reference/html/#reference[Spring Data R2DBC documentation] for more information on how to use Spring Data R2DBC.

Reviewer: Maybe this would be a more durable link:
```suggestion
See the https://docs.spring.io/spring-data/r2dbc/docs/current/reference/html/[Spring Data R2DBC documentation] for more information on how to use Spring Data R2DBC.
```

Author: updated

:spring-data-commons-ref: https://docs.spring.io/spring-data/data-commons/docs/current/reference/html

[#spring-data-cloud-spanner-r2dbc]
== Cloud Spanner Spring Data R2DBC

The Spring Data R2DBC Dialect for Cloud Spanner enables the usage of https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-data-r2dbc[Spring Data R2DBC] with Cloud Spanner.

The goal of the Spring Data project is to create easy and consistent ways of using data access technologies from Spring Framework applications.

=== Setup

> Maven coordinates, using link:getting-started.xml#bill-of-materials[Spring Framework on Google Cloud BOM]:

Reviewer: The bom is actually not shown below.

[source,xml]
----
<dependencies>
    <!-- The starter dependency for the Spring Data R2DBC framework. -->
    <dependency>

>         <groupId>org.springframework.boot.experimental</groupId>

Reviewer 2: This is also outdated, not experimental anymore.
```suggestion
        <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
```
In fact, it's part of `spring-boot-dependencies` [here](https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-boot/blob/v2.7.13/spring-boot-project/spring-boot-dependencies/build.gradle#L1571). So the starter version corresponds to Spring Boot version.

Author: sure, updated it

        <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-data-r2dbc</artifactId>

>         <version>${r2dbc-version}</version>

Reviewer 2: As @burkedavison previous pointed out, we probably want a version here that can be updated as part of the release. e.g. [here](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/spring-cloud-gcp/pull/1951/files#diff-1194561cbea346acb1bea37d81fdf5c70def982dcbb0c64eca2a96bc51941124L82)
In this case the version here is same as Spring Boot. I wonder if we can reuse pom properties ([this one](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/spring-cloud-gcp/blob/3.x/pom.xml#L44)) here in adoc?

Author: For now I have replaced it with `${spring-boot-dependencies.version}` , but guess it won't be updated automatically as AFAIK a tag like `{x-version-update:spring-boot-dependencies:current}` will update just the POM files (Please let me know if that's not the case)
Do you think we can remove this dependency's version from here and add it to the BOM (`spring-cloud-gcp-dependencies`), it might be simpler for the devs that way as they are anyways importing the BOM
WDYT @burkedavison @meltsufin ?

    </dependency>

    <!--
        Dialect for Spring Data R2DBC Spanner; This includes the
        Cloud Spanner R2DBC driver as a transitive dependency.
    -->
    <dependency>
        <groupId>com.google.cloud</groupId>
        <artifactId>spring-cloud-spanner-spring-data-r2dbc</artifactId>
    </dependency>
</dependencies>
----

> 

Author: Done (need to resolve the version for `spring-boot-starter-data-r2dbc` as discussed in a previous comment)

=== Overview

Spring Data R2DBC allows you to use the convenient features of Spring Data in a reactive application.
These features include:

* Spring configuration support using Java based `@Configuration` classes.
* Annotation based mapping metadata.
* Automatic implementation of Repository interfaces.
* Support for Reactive Transactions.
* Schema and data initialization utilities.

> See the https://docs.spring.io/spring-data/r2dbc/docs/1.0.x/reference/html/#reference[Spring Data R2DBC documentation] for more information on how to use Spring Data R2DBC.

Reviewer 2: This link needs to be updated.

Author: `https://docs.spring.io/spring-data/r2dbc/docs/1.0.x/reference/html/#reference` seems correct (pls let me know otherwise), updated the remaining links. PTAL

=== Sample Application

> We provide a https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/spring-cloud-gcp/tree/main/spring-cloud-gcp-samples/spring-cloud-spanner-r2dbc-samples[sample application] which demonstrates using the Spring Data R2DBC framework with Cloud Spanner in https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/current/spring-framework-reference/web-reactive.html[Spring WebFlux].

Reviewer 2: this Spring WebFlux link is not getting the page intended.

Author: updated the link
